#install ovirt engine
yum install ovirt-engine -y

#configure ovirt-engine
engine-setup

#install ovirt-node
menggunakan file iso
hostname diisi dengan nodeb.workshop.com

#access ovirt engine 
(a). run administrator notepad
(b). open C:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts
(c). tambahkan hostname dan ip, vm engine kedalam file hosts
(d). dapat diakeses dengan https://engine.workshop.com pada browser
(e). pilih Administration Portal username admin dan password redhat

#access ovirt node
tambahkan hostname dan ip, vm nodea.workshop.com dan nodeb.workshop.com kedalam file hosts

#Create new data center
Create two new data centers named datacenter1 and datacenter2.
(a). Log in to the Administration Portal as admin from the engine.workshop.com profile,
     using redhat as a password.
(b). Click the Data Centers tab.
(c). Click the New button in the Data Centers tab.
(d). In the New Data Center window, enter datacenter1 in the Name field. Keep the
     default values for the other fields. Click OK to create the data center.
(e). In the pop-up window titled Data Center - Guide Me, click Configure Later.
(f). Click the Data Centers tab.
(g). Click the New button in the Data Centers tab.
(h). In the New Data Center window, enter datacenter2 in the Name field. Keep the
     default values for the other fields. Click OK to create the data center.
(i). In the pop-up window titled Data Center - Guide Me, click Configure Later.

#Create New Cluster
Within the datacenter1 data center, create a new cluster named cluster1.
(a). the New Cluster window, select datacenter1 in the Data Center menu. Make sure
     that the General section is being displayed, and enter the following configuration
     settings:
     • Enter cluster1 in the Name field.
     • Select ovirtmgmt in the Management Network menu.
     • Select x86_64 in the CPU Architecture menu.
     • Select 4.3 in the Compatibility Version menu.
     • Select Linux Bridge in the Switch type menu.
     • Select the Enable Virt Service check box to allow hosts in this cluster to run virtual
       machines.
     • Keep the default values for the other fields.
(b). Click OK to create the cluster1 cluster
(c). and repeat for cluster in datacenter2

#Register and activate node hosts
Register the nodea.workshop.com node host with your ovirt environment. Its IP
address is (IP nodea vm). Its root password is redhat.
When finished, make sure it has activated and is Up.
   (a). Click the Hosts tab.
   (b). Click the New button to add nodea.workshop.com to your node environment.
   (c). In the New Host dialog window, click on the Host Cluster drop-down list and choose
        the cluster1 cluster in the datacenter1 data center.
   (d). In the Name text field, type in the nodea.workshop.com name.
   (e). In the Address field, type the servera IP address as (IP nodea vm).
   (f). In the Password field, type redhat as password for the local root user.
   (g). Leave all other options as they are. Click the OK button.
   (h). When the Power Management Configuration appears, click the OK button. Wait for the
        registration process to finish.
   (i). repeat for nodeb.workshop.com and that IP address & different cluster
   
#Create Additional Logical Networks
(a). In the Administration Portal dashboard, click the Networks tab to access
     the network configuration for the data centers. Click the New button to create a new
     network. In the New Logical Network dialog window, fill in the fields using the following
     information:
     Data Center         : datacenter1
     name                : virtual
     enable vlan tagging : enabled (enter VLAN number 10)
     VM network          : 10
(b). Click the New button to create a new logical network.
     In the New Logical Network dialog window, fill in the fields using the following
     information:
     Data Center         : datacenter1
     name                : storage
     enable vlan tagging : disabled
     VM network          : disabled
(c). Click the New button to create a new logical network.
     In the New Logical Network dialog window, fill in the fields using the following
     information:
     Data Center         : datacenter2
     name                : storage
     enable vlan tagging : disabled
     VM network          : disabled
 
#Manage Logical Networks
On nodea, assign the virtual logical network to its eth0 network interface, and the
storage logical network to its eth1 network interface. The IPv4 configuration of virtual
should use DHCP. The IPv4 configuration of storage should be set statically, using the IP
address nodea and the netmask 255.255.255.0.
(a). Click the Hosts tab.
(b). From the list of available hosts, choose servera.lab.example.com by clicking on it.
(c). In the lower part of the page, click on the Network Interfaces tab.
(d). Click the Setup Host Networks button to change that host network configuration.
(e). In the Setup Host servera.lab.example.com Networks dialog window, click and drag the
     storage box from the right side to the left side of the window. Drop that box onto the
     no network assigned field, next to the eth1 network interface.
(f). Click and drag the virtual (VLAN 10) box from the right side to the left side of the
     window. Drop that box onto the eth0 interface field. After dropping it, you should see
     two logical networks assigned to the eth0 interface.
(g). Click on the pencil icon inside the storage box. In the Edit Network storage dialog
     window, under Boot Protocol, click the radio button next to Static label.
(h). In the IP field, type in IP nodeb as the IP address of servera in that network.
(i). In the Netmask/Routing Prefix field, type in 255.255.255.0 as netmask.
(j). Click the OK button to save the settings.
(k). Ensure that the check boxes near Verify connectivity between Host and Engine and
     Save network configuration options are selected.
(l). Click the OK button to confirm and save the new network configuration for that host.
(m). repeat for nodeb

#Create new storage domain

#create new ISO storage domain
#create additonal logical networks
#upload centos iso to the ISO storage domain
